Easter is a festival celebrated by Christians to commemorate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The date of the festival is not fixed. It is celebrated on the first Sunday of a full moon day after March 21. It usually falls between March 21 and April 25.

The festival celebrates the resurrection of Jesus and is considered as a rebirth of Christianity. The earliest references of the celebration of this festival date back to the 2nd century. In ancient history, many controversies arose regarding the celebration of this festival. The first evidence of controversy surrounding the festival dates back to 2nd century, when Bishop Victor tried to punish bishops of Asia for celebration of the festival. The controversy was largely pertaining to the dates of the festival and the rights of celebrating the festival.

The second controversy arose in the 4th century, when a large majority was unhappy with following the Hebrew calendar for the festival. Many considered it an offence to consult the Jews for the appropriate time to celebrate this holy festival. This controversy was promptly resolved by the First Council when it was decided that the festival would be celebrated through independent computations. From then on, the day is celebrated on the first Sunday after the first moon after March 21. The festival marks the end of Lent, which is a 40 day fasting period of the Christians.

Easter is a holy festival which is celebrated by churches around the world. The traditional celebration of the festival involves a dimly lit church with special prayers sung in praise of Jesus Christ. It is then followed by an elaborate Sunday mass, with happy music being played in the background. In some cultures, such as the Polish, the celebrations are more pronounced with large processions being carried out in the church followed by an elaborate mass. People are often involved in charitable causes on this day and sing happy prayers in the church to commemorate the rising of Jesus Christ from dead. One more vital feature of Easter is egg. Egg is a symbol of resurrection for Christian community, so well decorated eggs and egg hunting have become very important in Easter.